DOC-3498: `tinymceai` on-prem documentation. (Closing) (#4137)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/tinymceai-on-premises-frameworks.adoc

= TinyMCE AI on-premises: editor-side integration
:navtitle: Framework integration
:description: Connecting the TinyMCE editor to the on-premises AI service from React, Vue, Angular, Svelte, or vanilla JavaScript.
:keywords: AI, on-premises, React, Vue, Angular, Svelte, token provider

This page covers the *editor-side* configuration that connects TinyMCE to the on-premises AI service. It assumes:

* The AI service is already running. See xref:tinymceai-on-premises-getting-started.adoc[Getting started] for setup instructions.
* A token endpoint exists that signs JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) for the AI service. See xref:tinymceai-on-premises-jwt.adoc[JWT authentication] for back-end implementations.

> * The TinyMCE API key has the AI feature enabled. Retrieve or upgrade a key at https://www.tiny.cloud/my-account/integrate/.

Reviewer: API key = cloud, need to mention API key or license key I think? I assume license key is more likely here because on prem

Author: Updated to: "A valid TinyMCE license key or API key with the AI feature enabled. On-premises deployments typically use a license key provided by a Tiny account representative."

For general framework setup (installing wrappers, component structure, server-side rendering (SSR) patterns), see the existing integration guides:

* xref:react-cloud.adoc[React]
* xref:vue-cloud.adoc[Vue.js]
* xref:angular-cloud.adoc[Angular]
* xref:svelte-cloud.adoc[Svelte]

The on-premises AI integration adds the options documented below to the standard TinyMCE `init` configuration.

> == Required editor options

Reviewer 2: this feels like a different structure to how we introduce editor config in other plugins?

Author: Noted — the on-prem integration page has a broader scope (CORS, CSP, SSR, token provider) which drove the different structure. Worth revisiting when aligning with the standard plugin documentation template.

[cols="1,3",options="header"]
|===
|Option |Description

|`plugins`

> |Must include `tinymceai`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`tinymceai`.
```

Is `Must include` needed here?

Author: Applied. See 2e68692.

To verify CORS from a terminal:

[source,bash]
----
curl -i -X OPTIONS https://ai.yourcompany.com/v1/conversations \
  -H 'Origin: https://app.yourcompany.com' \
  -H 'Access-Control-Request-Method: POST' \
  -H 'Access-Control-Request-Headers: authorization,content-type'
----

The response should include `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: \https://app.yourcompany.com`. If it shows `*` or no CORS header, update `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` on the AI service container and restart.

== Content Security Policy (CSP)

If the application sets a `Content-Security-Policy` header, allow the AI service origin in `connect-src`:

....
Content-Security-Policy:
  connect-src 'self' https://ai.yourcompany.com;
  script-src 'self';
....

If using the Tiny CDN instead of self-hosted assets, also add `\https://cdn.tiny.cloud` to `script-src`.

== Common integration errors

[cols="1,1,2",options="header"]
|===
|Symptom |Likely cause |Fix

|Editor loads but no AI buttons appear
|`plugins` does not include `tinymceai`, or TinyMCE is version 7.x or earlier

> |Set `plugins: 'tinymceai'` and confirm the script URL uses `/tinymce/8/`. Verify the API key has the AI feature enabled.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like this?
```suggestion
|Add `tinymceai` to 'plugins' list and confirm the script URL uses `/tinymce/8/`. Verify the API key has the AI feature enabled.
```

Author: Applied — now reads "Add `tinymceai` to the `plugins` list". See 2e68692.
